

--- PAGE 1 ---
A Review of Digital Twins for Security Testing and
Threat Prediction for MLO Exploits in Wi-Fi7
P .D. Dissanayake
Department of Computer Engineering
University of Peradeniya
Sri Lanka
e20084@eng.pdn.ac.lk
A.T.L. Nanayakkara
Department of Computer Engineering
University of Peradeniya
Sri Lanka
e20262@eng.pdn.ac.lk
D.R.P . Nilupul
Department of Computer Engineering
University of Peradeniya
Sri Lanka
e20266@eng.pdn.ac.lk
Dr. Upul Jayasinghe
Department of Computer Engineering
University of Peradeniya
Sri Lanka
upuljm@eng.pdn.ac.lk
Dr. Suneth Namal Karunarathna
Department of Computer Engineering
University of Peradeniya
Sri Lanka
namal@eng.pdn.ac.lk
Abstract—The IEEE 802.11be (Wi-Fi 7) standard introduces
Multi-Link Operations (MLOs), a shift in paradigms which
is expected to provide extremely high throughput by offering
multi-frequency bands and utilizing aggregated. While MLO has
the potential to provide and enhance dramatic improvements
in performance, the complexity of the MAC-layer coordination
logic (which includes packet steering, channel access, and multi-
link backoffs) creates a new and complex attack surface. This
literature review will consider the intersection of two domains,
new mechanisms within Wi-Fi 7 MLOs and new capabilities asso-
ciated with Network Digital Twins (NDTs) for security testing and
threat predictions. The literature review will demonstrate that the
focus of the current literature is highly fragmented. The majority
Wi-Fi 7 studies focus on performance improvements, and the
majority of the security literature is focused on legacy threats.
Most crucially, MLO-related anomalies, such as packet steering
and backoff compensation, are treated as performance problems,
not adversarial exploits. This review of the literature will reveal
a clear research gap at this intersection: the absence of high-
ﬁdelity NDTs capable of replicating and predicting MLO-related
threats. The backoff compensation and free ride mechanisms
will be targeted as a high impact, state based vulnerability that
could be exploited for more sophisticated Denial of Service (DoS)
attack scenarios. Attack scenarios that current testing approaches
cannot model. This paper establishes a clear need for a NDT
framework for security validation and mitigation for this new
breed of exploits in wireless networks.
I. I NTRODUCTION
The evolution of wireless networking is fueled by an
insatiable need for higher throughput and, more reliable,
lower latency. Demanding and Emerging applications, such
as Extended Reality (XR), Augmented Reality (AR), 4K/8K
video streaming, and cloud gaming, are testing legacy Wi-Fi
solutions to their limits. To respond, the IEEE has developed
the Wi-Fi 7 Standards to create a generational leap in perfor-
mance referred to as Extremely High Throughput (EHT).
Wi-Fi 7 offers innovative new aspects, such as 320 MHZ
channels and 4096-QAM; however, the most disruptive and
transformative aspect of the technology is Multi-Link Op-
eration (MLO). MLO is a new MAC layer paradigm that
will allow a single Multi-Link Device (MLD) to transmit and
receive simultaneously, and across multiple frequency bands
such as 2.4 , 5 and 6 GHz as if they were a single aggregated
pipe, or have multiple links behave independently and engage
in asynchronous communication.While it holds the potential
to vastly improve throughput and latency, it complicates op-
erations. MLO devices, rather than managing a one-channel
mechanism, must undertake a complex and real-time task of
selecting channels, assigning trafﬁc to links, and coordinating
access across channels for multiple parallel links. Although
this complexity is crucial to performance, it represents an
area for attack that has, to date, not been fully explored. This
review will survey the literature on MLO operations, inspect
new security challenges due to that operational complexity,
and then introduce the Digital Twin (DT) framework as an
approach for modeling.
A. Objectives and Overview
This review of the literature aims to take a critical perspec-
tive on the two rapidly evolving but comparatively isolated
ﬁelds of new MAC-layer performance mechanisms for Wi-Fi
7 (IEEE 802.11be) and the capabilities of Network Digital
Twins (NDTs) to test for security.
Although the majority of Wi-Fi 7 literature treats per-
formance optimization as its aim, this review contends that
the essence of those performance optimizations can be seen
as part of a new complex attack surface. In addition, we
claim that the underlying coordination logic, which is subtly
embedded in the state-based performance algorithms of Multi-
Link Operation provides potential vulnerabilities that existing
and legacy security frameworks cannot assess.
1


--- PAGE 2 ---
This review pursues the following speciﬁc objectives:
• Survey the Wi-Fi 7 MLO Attack Surface: To move
beyond legacy threats and identify novel vulnerabilities
in MLO-speciﬁc mechanisms, such as packet steering,
multi-link association, and backoff compensation
• Re-frame Performance Anomalies as Security Ex-
ploits: To critically analyze existing literature and demon-
strate how documented "performance issues," such as
backoff overﬂow, can be intentionally weaponized by an
adversary.
• Review State-of-the-Art NDTs: To examine the cur-
rent architectures, enabling technologies (e.g., simulation,
AI/ML), and primary use cases for Network Digital
Twins, which are currently focused on performance and
optimization rather than security.
• Identify the Critical Research Gap: To synthesize these
domains and demonstrate the urgent need for a security-
focused NDT framework speciﬁcally designed to model,
test, and predict adversarial MLO behavior.
To fulﬁll these aims, this review is organized as three major
surveys: First, a technical survey is provided comparing with a
technical survey of key mechanisms behind Wi-Fi 7, establish-
ing the complex logic of MLO and its features. Next, a critical
analysis entitled "From Features to Exploits," demonstrates
how the features of MLO can be steadily manipulated. Next,
the review continues to Digital Twins, providing a description
of core concepts and architectures. Finally, the review brings
all of the points described above together to explain the
research gap, and establishes that the MLO backoff mechanism
is a new and signiﬁcant vulnerability, and importantly, opens
up space for future work.
II. W I-FI 7: F ROM PAST TO PRESENT
From the ﬁrst wiﬁ generation established in 1997, As [1]
and [2] suggest, every generation of technology has developed
a new innovation to solve speciﬁc problems created by the
limitations of current generations, such as performance bot-
tlenecks, and therefore offers users higher-performing, more
efﬁcient wireless communication technologies.
These innovations are represented by enhancements in
many areas. Examples include increased channel bandwidth,
increased spectral efﬁciency, and enhanced modulation ca-
pabilities that provide for higher levels of throughput and
capacity on wireless networks. Continued advancement of
these technologies also results in improvements to MAC-
layer coordination, as well as the implementation of multi-
user access methods and the mitigation of interference, all of
which lead to a more reliable and fair wireless environment
as the demands of the user and needs for increased wireless
connectivity continue to grow and result in greater densities
of users and devices in an area.
Figure 1. Evolution of Wiﬁ
III. T HE PARADIGM SHIFT :I E E E8 0 2 . 1 1BE
A. Multi-Link Operation (MLO)
Wiﬁ 7 builds upon the standards of wiﬁ 6 to provide
extremely high throughput using multiple frequency channels
at the same time. The core idea is explained in [3]. Instead of
using a single link with multiple channels for a connection,
wiﬁ 7 utilizes a technology called Multi link operation that
uses multiple links for a single device and an access point.
Figure 2. Single link Vs Multi link operations
The devices that are capable of performing multi link
operations are named as multi-link devices. As [3] , [4]
and [5] suggest, different architectures, the used modes of
operation and the initial place of station play a huge role in
the speeds of the connection. STR (Simultaneous Transmit
Receive) and Non STR modes show different speeds and
architectures. STR uses multiple links to transmit and receive
at the same time using all the links independently [6]. This
provides asynchronous communication and thus different tasks
2

--- PAGE 3 ---
of different frequency bands. In synchronous mode, the links
are synchronized and thus all are needed to be free at the same
time for a new transmission from either end.
B. 4K-QAM (4096-QAM)
4096-QAM (4K-QAM) is a high-order modulation tech-
nique that was introduced as part of the Wi-Fi 7 standard to
enhance data throughput and spectral efﬁciency dramatically.
4K-QAM encodes 12 bits per symbol, compared to the 10
bits per symbol in 1024-QAM, which allows for an effective
peak data rate potential in the same channel bandwidth that
is up to 20% more than Wi-Fi 6 tools. This is instrumental
when supporting emerging bandwidth-intensive applications,
such as 8K streaming, cloud gaming, augmented reality (AR),
and virtual reality (VR), which require ultra-high throughput
and low latency. The 4K-QAM function in Wi-Fi 7 represents
an effort to maximize data density and efﬁciency across limited
spectrum resources, especially in the 6 GHz band.
However, reliable 4K-QAM operation implies exceptionally
high levels of signal-to-noise ratio (typically greater than 40
dB) with precise synchronization, as well as low distortion
in the transmitter chain [8]. It ultimately tests and expands
the boundaries of transceiver design, linearity, and noise
ultimately being a differentiator and enabler for the Wi-Fi
7 potential for multi-gigabit, deterministic, and low-latency
wireless connectivity.
C. Ultra-Wide Bandwidth
The bandwidth of Wi-Fi 7 has been made into much
wider channels (up to 320 MHz) and the newly opened 6
GHz band to provide orders-of-magnitude higher raw capacity
and lower interference than legacy bands.Wider instantaneous
bandwidths enable very high PHY rates and support higher
order modulations, but also increase sensitivity to noise,
hardware linearity and regulatory LBT/CCA constraints. As
expressed in [10] having a larger bandwidth allows for more
transmissions further increasing the throughput
D. Clear Channel Assessment (CCA) and Listen-Before-Talk
(LBT)
[10] and [11] discusses aspects of Clear channel assessment
to identify the status of the links. Before any transmission,
stations run a physical CCA (energy/preamble detection)
and regulatory LBT rules to decide whether the medium is
idle; these mechanisms gate entry to the channel and there-
fore directly shape access latency and collision probability.
CCA/LBT thresholds and sensing durations are fundamental
levers in coexistence and fairness.
E. EDCA and Contention Windows (CW)
The feature named Enhanced Distributed Channel Ac-
cess which was introduced in Wi-Fi 3 (IEEE 802.11e) pro-
vides differentiated access by assigning Access Categories
(voice/video/best-effort/background) their own AIFSN and
CWmin/CWmax values so that higher-priority trafﬁc, on
average, waits less time before winning access and sends
more packets [12]. The exponential backoff (CW doubling on
retries) is the basic anti-collision mechanic, but it is also the
point at which attackers or careless opportunistic schedulers
can bias access. In [13], the paper studies the effects of EDCA
parameters on the potential for packet steering, improving link
utilization.
F . Primary and Secondary Links in MLO
The differentiation between a primary link and a secondary
link is a key concept only in Wi-Fi 7’s Multi-Link Operation
context and does not apply in the context of traditional SLOs.
The primary link identiﬁes the anchor link for the MLO device
and is responsible for all initial association, authentication,
and control trafﬁc that is deemed critical. Additionally, it is
the only link that can be utilized by legacy devices, ensuring
backward compatibility. Secondary links are dedicated solely
for use by MLDs for speciﬁc performance increases, such
as aggregation of bandwidth between links and decreases
in latency. This key distinction between primary links and
secondary links is crucial to any MLO device’s trafﬁc steering,
failure management, and network fairness requirements.
According to [6], This primary-secondary architecture dic-
tates trafﬁc rules for MLDs and legacy clients.MLDs can
operate on the primary link or secondary links or both. In
the state that secondary links have arrived at congestion, an
MLD can ﬂow on the primary link. The reverse is not true for
fairness to prevent starvation of resources on legacy devices.
The implementation of this logic differs depending on the
operational mode of the MLO conﬁguration. In MLO-NSTR
mode, the primary link enforce strict operational linkage to-
gether, controlling all channel contention for both links. In the
MLO-STR mode, the links operate more independently, and
asynchronously, with the primary link’s primary responsibility
to manage overall connection and with supporting legacy
devices being a secondary responsibility rather than controlling
contention of every single data packet’s operation.
G. Radio Link Allocation and MLMR
In Wi-Fi 7, the allocation of radio links is the core of
Multi-Link Operation (MLO) and allows a device to sustain
concurrent links on 2.4, 5, and 6 GHz bands simultaneously.
A critical aspect of allocation is how to allocate data streams
on appropriate links for the best aggregate performance,
balancing throughput, latency, and reliability. Linking trafﬁc
types, or Access Categories (AC) [13], to appropriate physical
3

--- PAGE 4 ---
radio links is known as AC-to-Link Allocation. For example,
latency-sensitive voice or gaming trafﬁc may be prioritized on
the least congested or shortest latency radio link, while bulk
data transfer is routed to higher capacity bands.
Research and experiments on MLO optimization on Access
Point Controller (APC) [14] demonstrate that MLO alone is
not capable of exceeding MLO, but the allocation of radio
links is equally important. The central APC is structured
from real-time data to jointly coordinate AP-STA pairing and
link allocation, ultimately optimizing throughput while meet-
ing basic proportional fairness. A high-performance Multi-
Link Multi-Radio (MLMR) device can transmit and receive
concurrently (at the same time) on radios that operate inde-
pendently with each other. With the aid of a controller, the
high-performance device can dynamically combine, duplicate,
or steer trafﬁc allocation based on real-time channel condi-
tions.While the adaptive autonomy can support fairness and
security concerns, the vulnerabilities could arise from schedul-
ing algorithms being poorly tuned or attacked, causing devices
to dominate high-capacity links, causing backoff inclusions
and packet-steering bias to be key vulnerabilities in Wi-Fi 7
networks.
H. Packet Steering
In Wi-Fi 7, packet steering is the ability of a Multi-Link
Device (MLD) to actively assign trafﬁc to multiple links by
taking advantage of the all the bands available from 2.4,5
and 6 GHz bands. Packet steering takes packet handling
instructions from a layer called the Upper MAC (U-MAC),
and then the respective Lower MAC (L-MAC) handles the
actual steering logic. Packet steering is intended to maximize
throughput and minimize latency. This helps maintain Quality
of Service (QoS) levels by sending packets onto the link
that will provide the best results at that moment. Steering
decisions of which packets should be sent on which links
are based on time-sensitive characteristics of each link such
as signal-to-noise ratio, channel loading, and Access Category
(AC) prioritization from Enhanced Distributed Channel Access
(EDCA) parameters [13].
In regards to the time where a packet is assigned to a link,
Wi-Fi 7 outlines 3 strategies: Early Steering Strategy, Late
Steering Strategy, and Combined Steering Strategy. An Early
Steering Strategy assigns packets to links in advance of the
packet queue but has the advantage of having low scheduling
overhead and the highest possible predictability. With the Late
Steering Strategy, the selection of the link the packet will
be sent on is made just before the packet is transmitted to
the channel and can leverage more recent link conditions.
The Combined Steering Strategy effectively combines both
strategies; the packet will be assigned a link in advance and
then re-evaluated before transmission. The Combined Steering
Strategy allows for lower latency while also allowing adaptable
packet contexts that are affected by complex and dynamic
wireless environments.
Recent works such as [12], demonstrate that steering is a dy-
namic, per-packet process that can be implemented efﬁciently
on existing Wi-Fi architectures using host-driven scheduling,
enhancing both spectral utilization and determinism. Steering
can enable ﬁne-grained control over QoS trafﬁc by rerouting
low-latency voice or gaming ﬂows over less congested links,
while bundles of bulk data can be routed over wider bands.
Y et with all of the adaptability and autonomy that steering can
offer comes a new set of dilemmas. Poor calibration or mali-
cious steering behavior can favor high-capacity links towards
certain devices, erode fairness, and even create an exploitable
opportunity by manipulating backoffs and/or falsifying link
metrics. Thus, secure, AC-aware, and context-adaptive steering
algorithms become critical to ensuring fairness and reliability
in Wi-Fi 7’s multi-link technologies.
I. Backoffs and Free Rides
Wi-Fi’s CSMA/CA protocol uses random backoff timers to
manage channel access, a process which has known challenges
like backoff overﬂow [15,16]. Wi-Fi 7’s Multi-Link Operation
(MLO) adds complexity by using multiple backoff counters for
its different links. To improve efﬁciency, Wi-Fi 7 implements
backoff compensation to synchronize these counters, allowing
all links on a single device to transmit simultaneously. This,
however, introduces the phenomenon of free rides [16], where
a link transmits without completing its full backoff simply
because another link’s timer expired.
Figure 3. Backoff implementation in Wi-Fi
While this synchronization boosts efﬁciency, it can lead to
backoff overﬂow [16], where repeated compensations cause
counter errors, and creates signiﬁcant fairness challenges.
Repeated free rides may allow MLO devices to consistently
"skip the queue," undermining fairness for single-link devices.
Although Wi-Fi 7 speciﬁes safeguards like clamping backoff
values, this mechanism presents a new vulnerability. Malicious
devices could potentially exploit this by manipulating backoff
timing to gain disproportionate and unfair channel access,
making the security of backoff synchronization vital for Wi-Fi
7 networks.
4

--- PAGE 5 ---
IV . T HE CONVERGENCE OF WI-FI 7 AND NETWORK
DIGITAL TWINS
Because of its complexity, the IEEE 802.11be standard
is creating a validation crisis that cannot be addressed with
conventional testing techniques. This section will explain how
Network Digital Twins (NDTs) are the technological solution
to secure MLO described in Section III.
A. Beyond Static Simulation
Traditional discrete-event network simulators (such as ns-3
or OMNeT++) are built on static conﬁgurations and rely on
ofﬂine execution. However, MLO is an inherently changing
and unpredictable state-based operation. The operation of a
MLD is based on real-time data (the amount of congestion on
the primary link, the backoff timer values on the secondary
links as measured in milliseconds, and the instantaneous
routing decisions made by the Packet Steering algorithms).
It’s impossible to simulate live environments with capturing
cascading impacts of exploits (or "free rides") improperly
manipulated backoff counters through static simulations. As
such, the functional relationship between Wi-Fi 7 and NDTs
will continue, so to achieve this goal, the NDT performs
the function of synchronizing the temporal aspects needed to
capture these transient states. Additionally, the Digital Twin
serves to reﬂect the MAC Layer Logic operating on a live
network; therefore, Digital Twins are capable of detecting
changes in handshake logic, which would otherwise result in
standard jitter in a static log.
B. The Necessity of Sandbox Security
The cyber vulnerability or weaknesses of Wi-Fi 7 can only
be understood through adversarial testing; however, testing
backoff manipulation and steering exploit designs in produc-
tion networks runs the potential risk of degrading performance
for legitimate users as well as creating denial of service (DoS)
events.
What The Digital Twin provides is a risk-free sandbox; the
ﬁdelity of the twin is signiﬁcantly greater than that of a typical
"test environment." What the Security Researcher can do with
a virtual Twin of the MLO network is to introduce malicious
control frames or spoofed Channel State Information (CSI)
feedback and observe how the packet steering logic reacts.
This relationship allows the researcher to predict zero-day
vulnerabilities in the MLO coordination logic without com-
promising the integrity of the operational enterprise network.
C. Data-Driven Threat Prediction
Moreover, the existence of this intersection creates an op-
portunity to address the lack of transparency surrounding how
AI-driven scheduling works in Wi-Fi 7 systems. As Multi-Link
Operation (MLO) implementations become more and more
reliant on proprietary machine learning (ML) algorithms to
determine channel selection and link allocation of devices, the
New Digital Twin (NDT) is a way of running a shadow model.
The NDT allows for direct correlation of real-time telemetry
data generated by the Wi-Fi 7 Access Points (APs) with the
telemetry data returned to the devices from the Twin. Tracking
these metrics allows for identiﬁcation of statistically signiﬁcant
divergences between the optimal predicted link (as calculated
by the Twin) and the actual link selected by the device; it also
offers the potential to identify either exploitation of a device’s
ML algorithm or a more sophisticated jamming attack that
would evade traditional intrusion detection systems (IDS).
Figure 4. Wiﬁ 7 and Digital twin relationship
V. D IGITAL TWINS FOR REPLICA TION AND AUTOMA TION
A. Concept and Taxonomy of Network Digital Twins
Digital twins were initially used in manufacturing as high-
level virtual duplicates of physical objects. In networking, this
takes the form of the Network Digital Twin (NDT), deﬁned
as a software-based representation of topology, conﬁguration,
trafﬁc and performance that is continually synced with the live
network and provides ability for what-if analysis, optimization
and autonomous control [28], [39], [40]. The NDT is deﬁned
as a closed-loop system which mirrors the physical network at
multiple layers of abstraction (topology, protocol state, KPIs)
and aids in design, planning and operations for tasks like
capacity planning, fault analysis and trafﬁc engineering [28].
Recent systematic reviews have approached NDTs and dis-
tinguished their use from traditional ofﬂine simulation based
on: (i) notwithstanding there is no request to provide a constant
sync between a digital twin and physical system, moments
when the sync is continuous, (ii) bi-directional engagement,
as an NDT can actuate changes back into the scope of the
physical network, and (iii) multi-impactor usage where there
are distinct operational aspects from different challenges like
5

--- PAGE 6 ---
management, control, AI agents [39], [40], [53]. NDTs can
be classiﬁed by: based on scope, either intra-domain or end-
to-end, the layers supported either routing only or cross-
layer including wireless and applications, and by the primary
aim (design, optimization, resilience, or security) in terms
of generating the NDT. Most existing NDTs begin with the
context of application to a performance and measure resource
management approach, as opposed to speciﬁcally security-
centered work [53].
When discussing wireless systems, it is important to dif-
ferentiate between device-level twin, link-level twins (prop-
agation and interference) and network-level twins (multi-
cell, multi-RA T scenarios) [38]. The claim is made that it
is necessary to have accurate channel models, interferences,
user mobility, and protocol dynamics to "deserve" the title of
"digital twin." In the context of Wi-Fi 7, it provides insight that
Wi-Fi 7/MLO twins should not only replicate PHY capacity
throughput, but must also replicate MAC-layer contention,
multi-link scheduling and backoff dynamics [38].
B. Reference Architectures and Functional Frameworks
A range of literature has proposed reference architectures
that decompose Network Digital Twins (NDTs) into structured
functional building blocks. A common layer-view emerges
across the literature [28], [39]:
• Data collection and integration layer: Exporters collect
telemetry (counters, logs, traces) from devices and simu-
lators, normalizing information before streaming into the
twin.
• Data repository and semantic model: Graph-based rep-
resentations of topology, conﬁguration, KPIs, and event
information encapsulate uniﬁed data representation.
• Modelling and simulation layer: Representational models,
discrete-event simulators, and ML surrogates model net-
work behavior for different scenarios and conﬁgurations.
• Control and actuation layer: Closed-loop control, what-if
analysis, and policy enforcement enable the twin to enact
safe changes to physical network implementation.
• Orchestration and lifecycle management: MANO-style
components deploy, version, and update the twin and its
models over time.
The functional framework used in next-generation NDT
efforts, like the 6G-TWIN model, organizes this architecture
to understand explicit functions: Data Collection, Uniﬁed Data
Repository (UDR), Simulation Framework, AI/ML Work-
ﬂows, and NDT-MANO/ZSM automation, all encompassed
within security, interoperability, and scalability requirements
[46]. This framework aligns with the architecture proposed
for Wi-Fi 7, which has a Wi-Fi 7 telemetry fabric feeding into
a UDR, processing layer supporting AI/ML, and connects to
simulation engine components orchestrated by MANO/ZSM
throughout the units and visualized through a uniﬁed dash-
board.
Additional architectural perspectives derive the modules
and openness is essential; NDT platforms should expose
common interfaces to simulators, AI pipeline development,
and OSS/BSS systems rather than be evaluated as monolithic
vendor-speciﬁc emulators for the core architecture [40], [47].
This vision reinforces the adoption of composable building
blocks, for example: using the tools Containerlab, ns-3, OM-
NeT++, and ML services to build NDT environments with
scalable and adaptive characteristics [30], [39], [40], [50].
C. Enabling Technologies
Existing research in network simulation and emulation that
has informed the design of contemporary NDT platforms has
shown extensions to ns-3 that incorporate OS level packet-
processing models and co-simulation interfaces (e.g., FMI)
allow for genuine applications/protocol stacks to interact with
a digital twin in real time [31], [32]. These architectures
illustrate how to:
1) couple ns-3 with external tools through interfaces,
2) synchronize time across heterogeneous domains, and,
3) cocreate ns-3 as a digital twin "engine" instead of
standing alone as a simulator [31], [32].
Additional work supports complementary mechanisms for
keeping physical, and digital replicas, state synchronizations
over the communications [30].
Machine-learning-based propagation loss model to ns-3 has
shown to shorten and add the complexity of wireless channel
computations and remain accurate enough for network level
decision-making [33]. These results represent an adults shift
in simulation research, namely that not only large ﬁdelity,
but potentially computationally expensive modeling are being
augmented or replaced, with learned surrogate models to
support the near-real-time what-if experimentation [33].
Simultaneously, work on distributed Digital Twin network-
ing shows that Named Data Networking (NDN) can function
as both the data and control plane for the purposes of synchro-
nizing state and content across physical and virtual domains
[51]. These architectures are particularly useful for multi-site
Wi-Fi 7 deployments, where a centralized or federated twin
must ingest and publish telemetry at scale.
In addition to orchestration at the lab layer, tools such as
Containerlab recently allow for the declarative construction
of network testbeds through the orchestration of containers
and VM-wrapped network operating systems into arbitrary
topologies using V eth links and Linux bridges [50]. This
allows the construction of dense, resource efﬁcient emulated
environments involving controllers; FRR/SONiC; AAA ser-
vices; Kafka/MQTT buses; and IDS pipelines that can be used
6

--- PAGE 7 ---
as the non-RF-fraction of a Wi-Fi 7 digital twin in conjunction
with wireless simulations or real access points.
D. AI-Enabled Network Digital Twins
Recent advances in Network Digital Twins are increasingly
supplanting simulation with AI-driven surrogate modeling.
One line of work introduces a GNN-based digital twin trained
on packet-level OMNeT++ simulations, which uses message
passing over pathways, links and queues represented as graphs
to predict end-to-end QoS metrics while maintaining a com-
putational cost beneﬁt and strong generalizability to unseen
topologies [34].
Survey-based research in wireless communications demon-
strates GNNs as a natural representation of interference pat-
terns and topology relationships, establishing them as an
acceptable mechanism for representing complex wireless envi-
ronments and makes them promising candidates for wireless-
focused digital twins [35].
Another stream of work develops a learnable digital twin
which uses a neural embedding of nodes, links, and end-
to-end paths to replicate the KPIs from simulated outputs.
By training the embedding with static simulation data, the
inference can be made in one forward pass to accelerate the
network evaluation and conﬁguration optimization process,
avoiding entering simulation data in discrete-event simulation
each evaluation cycle [36].
Larger reviews of NDT systems lead to the observation
that AI/ML capabilities may be foundational elements of
digital twin pipelines. The reviews mention AI as methods to
accomplish essential functions within the NDT space, namely,
trafﬁc prediction, anomaly detection, routing optimization,
resource allocation, and closed-loop control [28], [36], [38],
[39]. These agreements build a case for maintaining an AI
workﬂow layer in the Wi-Fi 7/MLO twin proposed here:
(i) GNN-based performance surrogates for representing MLO
contention, scheduling, and steering decisions and (ii) deep
learning/reinforcement learning models for attack detection,
mitigation, and adaptive network reconﬁguration.
Knowledge-centric research on digital twins indicates that
the representation of the network entities, conﬁgurations and
dependencies through knowledge graphs allows structured
reasoning about policy, intent, and conﬁguration state [49].
A Wi-Fi 7/MLO twin would also beneﬁt from a graph-based
semantic layer that could inform which APs, links, ﬂows
or multi-link paths were impacted during failures, contention
events or security incidents [34], [35], [49].
E. Digital Twins for Wireless and Wi-Fi Networks
As of now, there is not yet a consideration of reliability
or security, indicating that wireless work is largely efﬁciency
driven with little to no consideration for adversarial common-
alities [38].
In the Wi-Fi space, experimental investigations on Multi-
Link Operation (MLO) offer an initial research perspective of
digital-twin inspired testbeds. Here, a conﬁgurable AP/STA
is connected with a virtual wireless environment to allow for
throughput, latency and link reliability analysis under realistic
conditions. However, its focus is on performance analysis, and
it does not include modelling adversarial behaviour or threat
prediction [29].
Current knowledge demonstrates that:
1) Digital twins can model multi-band, multi-AP WLAN
environments;
2) Interest in applying twins to Wi-Fi 7 and MLO is
increasing; and
3) Security testing and attack modeling are not yet incor-
porated into wireless or Wi-Fi digital-twin platforms.
This indicates a clear research gap: digital twins for Wi-Fi
7 are primarily performance-based, with scarcely researched
applications for security analysis and threat prediction.
F . Digital Twins, Intrusion Detection, and Threat Modeling
Digital twin uses with a security focus are more advanced
in other cyber-physical domains than for Wi-Fi contexts. Prior
work demonstrates the idea of a digital twin can itself be under
attack: an attacker can change the inputs to the digital twin,
manipulate the model outputs to give misleading impressions
of system behavior, or disrupt the interplay of the interactions
of the real world and the digital twin [45]. This body of
work conveys that any security assessment should include
assessment of the twin in consideration of the real system,
as vulnerabilities in one may impact the other. Likewise,
they position digital twins as uniquely contrived environments,
allowing for security behaviors and system responses to be
evaluated without impacting operational deployments [45].
Machine-learning methods for intrusion detection in wire-
less and critical-infrastructure contexts are considered more
advantageous than convention rule-based IDS techniques, par-
ticularly in cases where more subtle or complexities in attack
signatures are arising [42], [43]. However, conventionally, a
dataset that is built ahead of time is used and disconnected
from (use of) continuous learning and engagement of the IDS
with a live or simulated network online behavior. Static data,
as the training means, limits (ML) methods in the ability
to capture changing behaviour: a closed-loop digital twin
would produce the capability to generate and replay attack and
observe it under realistic and distributed behaviours. Research
on coexistence among next-generation wireless systems recog-
nizes new vulnerabilities when the systems share a spectrum
or coexist in a common environment [44]. Such research
underscores the challenges associated with the complexity of
7

--- PAGE 8 ---
channel interference, the intertwining of protocols, and the
idiosyncrasies of conﬁguration vulnerabilities with heteroge-
neous systems. A digital twin of Wi-Fi 7 with Multi-Link
Operation, because it can expose PHY/MAC-level informa-
tion and allow for controlled execution of cross-technology
or cross-link attack scenarios that are impossible to test in
production networks, could speciﬁcally support this type of
study.
Figure 5. Wiﬁ threat model architecture for Digital twins
Digital-twin frameworks for future wireless management
have exempliﬁed options for operators to study conﬁguration
changes, resource strategies, and performance trade-offs prior
to deploying them in practice [37]. While these frameworks
primarily emphasize optimization and service performance, the
dual of the framework to conduct security evaluations ﬂows
naturally. A twin developed to model Wi-Fi 7/MLO behavior
would allow for controlled injection of adversarial actions and
observations of these actions on throughput or fairness. It
would also allow for testing of mitigation mechanisms while
safely maintaining the operational system without disruption
to the system.
G. Synthesis: Gap at the Intersection
Several themes motivate the proposed research focus:
• Mature NDT architectures, but security is secondary:
Surveys and frameworks for NDT [28], [39], [40], [53]
identify distinct building blocks (data collection, UDR,
simulation, AI, MANO/ZSM) and have demonstrated
use cases in network trafﬁc engineering, planning and
optimization, but they are primarily motivated by per-
formance or resource-management objectives. Security
generally appears in these selections of work as a sup-
porting or non-functional requirement (i.e., protecting a
twin and the network) rather than modeled as the main
objective (stabby, developing models of attack surfaces,
or predicting exploits) [28], [39], [40], [53]. Other work
surveys threats to digital twins or cyber-physical systems
more broadly. Security is considered a core topic, but
again does not focus on Wi-Fi 7 or MLO [45].
• Wireless and Wi-Fi twins emphasize performance
rather than adversaries: Wireless DT surveys [38] and
all works on Wi-Fi based twins [29] describe how twins
model propagation, load balancing, handover, or MLO
behavior, but they all do so while largely ignoring inten-
tional malicious behavior like falsiﬁed CSI, HARQ ma-
nipulation, or backward exploitations present in the multi-
link environment (resets, etc.) [29], [38], [44]. Again,
performance, reliability and mobility optimizations are
the focus and security is included as an open issue, rather
than an explicit part of the model in the twin.
• AI-enabled twins exist, but not for Wi-Fi 7 MLO
threat prediction: GNN-based and learnable twins [34]–
[36] estimate network performance and enable rapid
what-if analysis, while ML-based IDS work [42], [43]
demonstrates robust capabilities for attack classiﬁcation
in Wi-Fi. Nonetheless, despite the studies reviewed here
to date, no research paper identiﬁed a closed-loop twin
that creates realistic MLO-level attack traces and re-
trains/evaluates ML models under different conditions
[34]– [36], [38], [42], [43]. AI-powered twins are often
focused on performance enhancements and the majority
of IDS studies do not use live or emulated Wi-Fi 7/MLO
telemetry to develop datasets.
• Digital twin threat work targets the twin, not Wi-
Fi 7 MLO exploits: The digital twin threat survey
[45] emphasizes threats targeting digital twins and cyber-
physical systems but does not consider Wi-Fi MAC-
layer coordination logic, backoff compensation, or "free-
ride" phenomena characterizing IEEE 802.11be MLO
[29], [37], [44], [45]. Additionally, Wi-Fi and wireless
management twins [29], [37] and coexistence studies [44]
seem to not utilize twins as systematic digital MLO-
based threat modeling or predictions.
VI. C RITICAL ANALYSIS OF EXISTING LITERA TURE
A narrative review was performed on more than 50 pa-
pers. Level 3 of AI assessment, otherwise referred to as AI
collaboration, was used in conducting the research covering
Wi-Fi 7 and associated technologies. Overall, we found that
the literature is primarily oriented towards two different but
relatively unrelated areas of study:
Performance and Optimization: Most of the literature
currently published [4], [6], [10], [14], [20] is focused on
enhancing performance overall. These studies optimize MLO
with respect to lower latency [6], higher throughput [14], or
improved QoS for speciﬁc applications such as AR [4]. These
studies are fundamental to the success of the technology and
treat known limitations and delays for performance, which is
fundamental to realizing MLO in practice.
Legacy and General Security: Research populated by
8

--- PAGE 9 ---
research on security is largely based on legacy threats [2],
namely in relation to “Evil Twin” type of attacks [21], or
relating due dilemmas or deﬁciencies in the security of co-
existing standards (for example, Wi-Fi 6 and 5G) in surveys
[44]. These studies have value but do not touch on new and
unique, state-based vulnerabilities related to the MLO multi-
link coordination logic.
The comprehensive literature review indicated that, while
the literature remains focused on performance, it has unknow-
ingly indicated several protocol-level anomalies, functional
risks, and new complexities to resolve that have not yet
been examined as actual security vulnerabilities. This research
integrates these ﬁndings into a cohesive list of 11 signiﬁcant
issues reﬂective of an attack surface that is not yet addressed.
To establish a clear problem domain for each issue, Table
II separates the identiﬁed vulnerabilities into two groups:
physical protocol stresses versus higher-level algorithmic and
scheduling exploitations.
Critically, papers addressing these issues treat them as
performance and fairness anomalies rather than intentional ma-
licious exploitation vectors. This represents the key blind spot
in current literature. A distinct gap exists at the intersection
of Wi-Fi 7’s MLO-speciﬁc vulnerabilities and digital twin-
based security testing and threat prediction, where twins are
explicitly designed to simulate, detect, and mitigate adversarial
MLO behavior rather than just optimize performance.
Based on the previous discussion, the proposed architec-
ture is positioned as a novel contribution relative to existing
works [28] [30]– [33] [35]– [39] [46]– [52] [53]. It uniquely
combines Wi-Fi 7/MLO telemetry collection and inference
engines through a uniﬁed data repository, GNN-based per-
formance twins, DL/RL-based anomaly detection approaches,
and a simulation framework (ns-3/OMNeT++) orchestrated via
Containerlab and NDT-MANO/ZSM. By speciﬁcally focusing
on the MLO backoff mechanism, a currently under-explored
area within the NDT framework, this architecture extends the
state-of-the-art beyond performance optimization and towards
the critical domain of security testing and threat prediction
for MLO exploits. To this end, this literature review sets
up a research plan where the proposed Wi-Fi 7/MLO twin
will be explicitly used to: (i) replicate MLO backoff and
packet steering behaviors under both benign and adversarial
conditions; (ii) generate the labelled datasets required for ML
models to detect these novel threats; and (iii) use the twin
to explore and validate effective mitigation strategies, such
as adaptive backoff strategies and link steering policies, in
a closed-loop environment before deployment in real Wi-Fi
networks [29] [34] [37] [42]– [45].
VII. F ROM FEA TURES TO EXPLOITS
The very innovations that yield the unmatched performance
of Wi-Fi 7 - MLO, dynamic steering, and further contention
mechanisms - substantially broaden the attack surface. The
complexity required to manage multiple links in real time
invokes new logical and state-based vulnerabilities not present
when a single link architecture is deployed. An attacker has
more to exploit than just jamming a single frequency; they
can now target the logics of coordination that bind those link
together. This section examines exploitable aspects of Wi-Fi
7, categorized by the particular feature being exploited by the
attacker, with backoff mitigation as a particular focus.
A. Association and Link Management Vulnerabilities
Multi-Link Association Hijack: The MLO association
procedure is a complex multi-stage handshake to set up and
verify all of the links. This procedure increases the opportunity
for similar attacks as "Evil Twin" or association spooﬁng. An
attacker could inject during this handshake and either hijack a
secondary link or spoof control frames. A successful attack
could prohibit a legitimate MLD from fully establishing a
complete MLO connection forcing it into a degraded single-
link mode, or create a man-in-the-middle (MITM) situation
on one of the aggregated links. New research indicates there
are even challenges in securing a modern Wi-Fi connection
establishment [22].
Primary Link Denial of Service: It has already been
established that the primary link is the fundamental link for
control trafﬁc and legacy compatibility [6]. An attacker could
exploit this by pretending to be a legacy (non-MLD) device,
which only associates with the primary link. By continually
contending for and occupying the primary link, the attacker
can stop the critical control, association, and management
frames from the MLD device, better or worse rendering
the entire MLO operation inoperable. This is the deﬁnition
of cross-link interference where one link fails due to the
completion of another link and this is a well-known issue of
co-existing networks [5] [23].
B. PHY/MAC Feedback and Logic Exploits
Spooﬁng CSI Feedback and Beam Hijacking: High-
throughput 6 GHz links utilize beamforming, which relies on
the active client to provide accurate Channel State Information
(CSI) feedback to the access point. An attacker could spoof
this CSI feedback, "lying" to the AP about the channel
conditions. The attacker could then use this "spoofed" CSI to
"hijack" the beam, compelling the AP to direct its RF signal
toward the attacker to conduct eavesdropping, as shown in Wi-
Fi 6 [24], or worse, into a null space for a targeted denial of
service.
HARQ Vulnerability: The newly introduced Hybrid ARQ
(HARQ) for faster retransmissions adds a new, tight-timed
transport layer protocol for an attack. An attacker success-
fully predicting or otherwise interfering with the HARQ
ACK/NACK signaling could force unwanted retransmissions
9

--- PAGE 10 ---
Table I
IDENTIFIED AREAS OF PROTOCOL STRESS AND ANOMALIES
Fundamental Protocol & Link Stress Algorithmic & Scheduling Exploitation
(PHY/MAC Mechanics & Handshakes) (Optimization, AI & Decision Logic)
1. Backoff Manipulation–identiﬁed as fairness and performance issue [16] 7. Exploitation of Naive Packet Splitting algorithms– potential out-of-order
packet creation [12]
2. Cross-Link Interference–legacy client dependence on primary link creates
chokepoint problems [5]
8. Exploitation of MAB Algorithms– ML-based scheduling vulnerabilities
[13]
3. Collision Probability and Exploitation–fundamental backoff mechanisms
remain central to channel access [13], [17]
9. Challenges of Packet Splitting– non-trivial optimization problem [12]
4. Frame Aggregation & Striping Risks–frame reassembly complexity [18] 10. Packet Steering– Early/Late steering method exploitation potential [12]
5. Multi-Link Association– complex handshake for establishing multiple links 11. Potential Beam Hijacking/Spoofed CSI–beamforming feedback suscepti-
bility [24]
6. HARQ Disruption– new feedback mechanism exploitation layer [17]
causing throughput degradation or perhaps convince the sender
that a missing packet was successfully acknowledged, causing
potentially catastrophic effects higher in the data stream.
Frame Aggregation and Frame Striping Risks: The
ability to aggregate, or stripe packets across multiple links (e.g.
multiple STEPs) creates complications with reassembly. An
attacker could selectively condition a packet, or fragment the
packet, or stripe a packet in a manner that would overwhelm
the receiver reassembly buffer, with the goal of creating a
buffer overﬂow, out of order delivery, or logic crash in the
MAC layer.
C. Data Steering and Allocation Attacks
Packet Allocation and Steering Exploits: As [12] states,
it is vital to select Early, Late, or Combined steering. The
attacker could exploit this algorithm. Based on the measured
quality of the links, the attacker could trick the steering
algorithm into putting the high-priority trafﬁc such as voice, on
a congested link. The attacker could also exploit naive splitting
logic for the trafﬁc, causing massive out-of-order delivery of
packets that would cause the receiver’s reassembly buffers to
overﬂow, and leading to a retransmission storm
Exploitation of MLO Scheduling Algorithms: MLO link
selection is a complicated optimization problem - and has
typically been addressed with heuristic approaches or learning-
based approaches (MAB) [14] that learn over time which link
is the "best" to use based on feedback. These sampled feedback
systems that create ML-driven steering are vulnerable to
adversarial ML attack [25], [26]. For example, an attacker
can poison the feedback loop by spooﬁng packet ACKs or
by creating legitimate interference in the link, causing an
otherwise high-quality link to seem poor connection quality
[14], [27]. In this manner, the attacker "tricks" the MAB to
"explore" the bad links and creates a systematic degradation
of the target connection, while appearing relatively stealthy.
D. Contention and Backoff Manipulation
The most complex attacks involve the basic CSMA/CA
protocol and are now dangerously complicated by MLO.
Although there are always simple collision based attacks (e.g.
sending during another device’s countdown to increase the
likelihood of a collision), the synchronized backoff of MLO
generates a much more obscure vulnerability. This exploit,
a focus of this research, exploits the free ride and backoff
compensation functionality seen in [15] and [16].
The Attack V ector: The malicious MLD can exploit back-
off compensation rules. In Non-STR mode, where links must
contend and transmit together, the malicious device could
deliberately manipulate the backoff counter on one of its active
links. For instance, it could "listen" on a link that it knows to
be busy and pause its own backoff, while allowing the counter
on a clear link to expire.
The Objective (Backoff Overﬂow): By intentionally
desynchronizing internal counters, the attacker can repeatedly
induce backoff overﬂow by then re-triggering the backoff
compensation. Backoff overﬂow was explicitly identiﬁed as
a problem in [16]. The end result is for the attacker to have a
backoff counter reset to some minimal value without having
"paid" the cost of a full random wait time.
The Result (Fairness Collapse): This principle success-
fully disrupts the fairness of the EDCA parameters [13]. Rather
than waiting for a random backoff interval, the attacker’s de-
vice now enters a continuous, asynchronous-like transmission
mode in an otherwise synchronous environment. The attacker
will thus enable itself to perpetually receive "free rides" [16]
and dominate the channel while starving other devices (both
MLD and legacy) of access.
VIII. D ISCUSSION
The literature review has mapped out the complicated and
emerging space of Multi-Link Operation (MLO) in Wi-Fi 7.
10

--- PAGE 11 ---
The ﬁndings indicate that moving to MLO [1], [9], [20] is
not simply the performance improvement; it is a fundamental
MAC-layer complexity change introducing an entire new class
of security vulnerabilities that haven’t been previously studied.
The central discovery of this review is the critical blind
spot in the current works; the literature split into two nearly
independent communities: one aiming to optimize MLO per-
formance [10], [14], and one to conduct an attack analysis of
legacy security vulnerabilities [2], [21]. In bridging this gap,
this review proposes a new threat vector as the weaponization
of MLO performance anomalies. While the "backoff overﬂow"
problem [16], the literature focuses on as a fairness issue, is
instead repurposed into a sophisticated, state-based DoS attack
through operationalization.
This ﬁnding leads to the second major conclusion of this
work; traditional security testing approaches are inadequate.
The state-based, multi-link and time-sensitivity characteristics
of a DoS exploit MLO is fundamentally not the same as
modeling a static analysis or a single-link and even simple
simulation. This is where the Network Digital Twin (NDT)
becomes invaluable. This review contends that NDT is not
merely an analytic tool for "what-if" performance analysis [37]
but offers the vital platform for MLO security-in-design. A
high-ﬁdelity NDT as offered in the literature [28], [39], [53]
represents the only environment to:
1) Replicate the intricate state of multi-link contention.
2) Create the high-ﬁdelity datasets of both benign and ad-
versarial MLO behavior for training ML-based detection
models [34], [42].
3) V alidate mitigation strategies in a closed loop allowing
vendors and standards organizations to evaluate and
only deploy new backoff or packet steering mitigation
algorithms if they provide resilience.
A. Future Directions
Although this study primarily examines the MLO backoff
attack, the suggested Digital Twin framework establishes a
foundation for a broad spectrum of future research. As high-
lighted in [37], the NDT serves as a robust platform for
conducting "what-if" simulations, making it an ideal tool for
investigating the additional protocol vulnerabilities identiﬁed
in this review. Future inquiries should prioritize the following
areas:
Adversarial Packet Steering: Research should investigate
vulnerabilities within "Early" versus "Late" steering mecha-
nisms [12]. An NDT environment can be utilized to simulate
adversaries manipulating link-quality indicators to corrupt
MLO scheduling algorithms [14] or Multi-Armed Bandit
(MAB) decision logic [13], thereby forcing Access Points
into suboptimal resource allocation. This domain intersects
signiﬁcantly with the emerging ﬁeld of adversarial machine
learning in wireless networks [25], [26].
Vulnerabilities in PHY/MAC Feedback Loops: NDTs
should be leveraged to assess the resilience of rapid feedback
mechanisms. Potential applications include modeling spoofed
Channel State Information (CSI) to identify beam hijacking
risks—similar to those observed in Wi-Fi 6 [24]—or injecting
fabricated or latent ACK/NACK signals to stress-test the state
consistency of the newly implemented HARQ protocols [24].
MLO Association and Coexistence Exploits: The NDT
architecture is well-suited for modeling the complex multi-link
association handshake. This allows for the feasibility analysis
of sophisticated Man-in-the-Middle (MITM) attacks during
link establishment. Furthermore, it provides a controlled en-
vironment to evaluate "Primary Link Denial-of-Service" sce-
narios, where adversaries mimic legacy devices to saturate the
primary link, thereby disrupting MLO control signaling and
intensifying coexistence challenges.
Advancement of the Digital Twin Framework: The
development of a security-centric NDT for MLO constitutes
a distinct research domain. Future endeavors must focus on
scalability, potentially employing sampling techniques [48],
and investigating the integration of Generative AI (GenAI)
to synthesize realistic, large-scale trafﬁc patterns and attack
vectors [19]. Crucially, these advancements must be balanced
against the need to maintain the NDT’s ﬁdelity and accuracy
as a validation tool.
This review asserts that the safety of Wi-Fi 7 and future
wireless systems is inherently tied to our capability to model
their complexity. The MLO exploits presented offer a new
category of threats that target protocol logic rather than
weaknesses. This research asserts that the NDT is no longer a
luxury for analyzing performance, however, represents a vital
component of the security for all future wireless systems.
IX. C ONCLUSION
This literature review has mapped the newly emerged,
nuanced terrain of Multi-Link Operation in Wi-Fi 7 (MLO),
showing that its complex MAC-layer coordination is not just
about enhanced performance but a signiﬁcant change that
creates a new, unexplored attack surface. The key conclusion
of this work is a dangerous gap in the associated litera-
ture, which is unfortunately fragmented; one community has
focused on MLO performance [4], [14] while another has
considered legacy security issues [2], [21], [44]. The review
opens a dialogue between these two worlds and represents the
ﬁrst time documented performance-related issues with MLO,
speciﬁcally the "backoff overﬂow" problem [16], are identiﬁed
as purposeful and weaponized security exploits.
To summarize, this review shifts the conversation from
MLO performance to MLO security. We have proposed the
existence of a new type of threat that targets protocol logic
rather than cryptographic weakness. Consequently, the security
of Wi-Fi 7 and future wireless systems will hinge on our
11

--- PAGE 12 ---
ability to model and defend this new logical attack surface,
and this work proposes that the Network Digital Twin is the
foundational defense.
REFERENCES
[1] S. S. Murad, R. Badeel, B. B. Abdal, T. Rahman, and T. Al-Quraishi,
“Introduction to Wi-Fi 7: A Review of History, Applications, Chal-
lenges, Economical Impact and Research Development,” Mesopotamian
Journal of Computer Science, vol. 2024, pp. 110–121, 2024, doi:
10.58496/MJCSC/2024/009.
[2] E. Firdus et al., “WiFi from past to today, consequences that can
cause and measures of prevention from them, WiFi security proto-
cols,” E3S Web of Conferences, vol. 474, p. 02004, Jan. 2024, doi:
10.1051/E3SCONF/202447402004.
[3] “White Paper: Wi-Fi 7 Multi-Link Operation (MLO).” Accessed:
Oct. 20, 2025. [Online]. Available: https://www.mediatek.com/tek-talk-
blogs/white-paper-wi-ﬁ-7-multi-link-operation-mlo
[4] M. Alsakati, C. Pettersson, S. Max, V . N. Moothedath, and J. Gross,
“Performance of 802.11be Wi-Fi 7 with Multi-Link Operation on AR
Applications,” Apr. 2023, Accessed: Oct. 07, 2025. [Online]. Available:
http://arxiv.org/abs/2304.01693
[5] S. Jung, S. Choi, Y . Y oon, H. Son, H. Kim, and S. Member, “Modeling
and Analysis of Coexistence Between MLO NSTR-based Wi-Fi 7 and
Legacy Wi-Fi,” Sep. 2025, Accessed: Oct. 08, 2025. [Online]. Available:
https://arxiv.org/pdf/2509.01201
[6] M. Carrascosa, G. Geraci, . . . E. K.-I. 2022-I., and undeﬁned 2022,
“An experimental study of latency for IEEE 802.11 be multi-link
operation,” ieeexplore.ieee.orgM Carrascosa, G Geraci, E Knightly, B
BellaltaICC 2022-IEEE International Conference on Communications,
2022•ieeexplore.ieee.org, Accessed: Oct. 08, 2025. [Online]. Available:
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/9838765/
[7] R. P . F. Hoefel, “Effects of Phase Noise and Frequency Offset on the
Performance of 4K-QAM and 16K-QAM in 802.11be and 802.11bn
WLANs,” IEEE Wireless Communications and Networking Conference,
WCNC, 2024, doi: 10.1109/WCNC57260.2024.10570887.
[8] H. Wang, H. Mohammadnezhad, and P . Heydari, “Analysis and De-
sign of High-Order QAM Direct-Modulation Transmitter for High-
Speed Point-to-Point mm-Wave Wireless Links,” IEEE Journal of
Solid-State Circuits, vol. 54, no. 11, pp. 3161–3179, Nov. 2019, doi:
10.1109/JSSC.2019.2931610.
[9] C. Deng et al., “IEEE 802.11be-Wi-Fi 7: New Challenges and Oppor-
tunities,” IEEE Communications Surveys and Tutorials, vol. 22, no. 4,
pp. 2136–2166, Jul. 2020, doi: 10.1109/COMST.2020.3012715.
[10] M. Carrascosa-Zamacois, G. Geraci, L. Galati-Giordano, A. Jonsson,
and B. Bellalta, “Understanding Multi-link Operation in Wi-Fi 7: Per-
formance, Anomalies, and Solutions,” IEEE International Symposium
on Personal, Indoor and Mobile Radio Communications, PIMRC, Oct.
2022, doi: 10.1109/PIMRC56721.2023.10293865.
[11] Z. Xie, R. Xu, and L. Lei, “A study of clear channel assessment
performance for low powerwide area networks,” IET Seminar Digest,
vol. 2014, no. 3, pp. 311–315, 2014, doi: 10.1049/IC.2014.0119.
[12] G. Cena, M. Rosani, and S. Scanzio, “Packet Steering Mechanisms
for MLO in Wi-Fi 7,” IEEE International Conference on Emerg-
ing Technologies and Factory Automation, ETFA, Nov. 2024, doi:
10.1109/ETFA61755.2024.10710726.
[13] P . Yi, W. Cheng, J. Wang, J. Pan, Y . Ouyang, and W. Zhang, “In-
telligent Multi-link EDCA Optimization for Delay-Bounded QoS in
Wi-Fi 7,” Sep. 2025, Accessed: Oct. 07, 2025. [Online]. Available:
https://arxiv.org/pdf/2509.25855v1
[14] L. Zhang, H. Yin, S. Roy, L. Cao, X. Gao, and V . Sathya, “IEEE
802.11be Network Throughput Optimization with Multi-Link Operation
and AP Coordination,” Dec. 2023, Accessed: Oct. 14, 2025. [Online].
Available: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2312.00345
[15] A. López-Raventós, B. B.-I. W. Communications, and undeﬁned
2022, “Multi-link operation in IEEE 802.11 be WLANs,” ieeex-
plore.ieee.orgA López-Raventós, B BellaltaIEEE Wireless Communica-
tions, 2022•ieeexplore.ieee.org, 2022, Accessed: Oct. 08, 2025. [Online].
Available: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/9770579/
[16] W. Murti and J. H. Y un, “Multilink Operation in IEEE 802.11be Wireless
LANs: Backoff Overﬂow Problem and Solutions,” Sensors 2022, V ol. 22,
Page 3501, vol. 22, no. 9, p. 3501, May 2022, doi: 10.3390/S22093501.
[17] E. Khorov, I. Levitsky, I. A.-I. access, and undeﬁned 2020, “Cur-
rent status and directions of IEEE 802.11 be, the future Wi-Fi
7,” ieeexplore.ieee.orgE Khorov, I Levitsky, IF AkyildizIEEE access,
2020•ieeexplore.ieee.org, Accessed: Oct. 08, 2025. [Online]. Available:
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/9090146/
[18] S. Scanzio et al., “Multi-Link Operation and Wireless Digital Twin
to Support Enhanced Roaming in Next-Gen Wi-Fi,” Apr. 2024, doi:
10.1109/WFCS60972.2024.10540931.
[19] H. Chai, H. Wang, T. Li, and Z. Wang, “Generative AI-Driven Digital
Twin for Mobile Networks,” IEEE Network, vol. 38, no. 5, pp. 84–92,
2024, doi: 10.1109/MNET.2024.3420702.
[20] A. A. Abdalhaﬁd, S. K. Subramaniam, Z. A. Zukarnain, and F. H. Ayob,
“Multi-Link Operation in IEEE802.11be Extremely High Through-
put: A Survey,” IEEE Access, vol. 12, pp. 46891–46906, 2024, doi:
10.1109/ACCESS.2024.3378997.
[21] V . Jain, V . Laxmi, M. S. Gaur, and M. Mosbah, “ETGuard: Detecting
D2D attacks using wireless Evil Twins,” Computers & Security, vol. 83,
pp. 389–405, Jun. 2019, doi: 10.1016/J.COSE.2019.02.014.
[22] N. Hoque and H. Rahbari, “Securing Wi-Fi 6 Connection Establishment
Against Relay and Spooﬁng Threats,” Jan. 2025, Accessed: Oct. 08,
2025. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2501.01517
[23] D. Croce, D. Garlisi, F. Giuliano, N. Inzerillo, and I. Tinnirello,
“Learning from Errors: Detecting Cross-Technology Interference in
WiFi Networks,” IEEE Transactions on Cognitive Communications
and Networking, vol. 4, no. 2, pp. 347–356, Jun. 2018, doi:
10.1109/TCCN.2018.2816068.
[24] T. M. Hoang, A. V ahid, D. C. Sicker, and A. Sabharwal, “Physical-Layer
Spooﬁng in WiFi 6 to Steer the Beam Toward the Attacker,” IEEE
International Conference on Communications, pp. 4006–4011, 2024,
doi: 10.1109/ICC51166.2024.10622744.
[25] “Adversarial Machine Learning Attacks in Wireless Net-
works.” Accessed: Oct. 20, 2025. [Online]. Available:
https://apnic.foundation/projects/adversarial-machine-learning-attacks-
in-wireless-networks/technicalreport
[26] O. T. Ajayi, S. O. Onidare, and H. Tajudeen, “A Study on Adversarial
Machine Learning in Wireless Communication Systems,” Lecture Notes
in Electrical Engineering, vol. 1253 LNEE, pp. 384–392, 2024, doi:
10.1007/978-981-97-6937-7-46.
[27] C. Li et al., “Practical Adversarial Attack on WiFi Sensing Through
Unnoticeable Communication Packet Perturbation,” ACM MobiCom
2024 - Proceedings of the 30th International Conference on Mo-
bile Computing and Networking, pp. 373–387, Dec. 2024, doi:
10.1145/3636534.3649367.
[28] P . Almasan et al., “Network Digital Twin: Context, Enabling Technolo-
gies, and Opportunities,” IEEE Communications Magazine, vol. 60, no.
11, pp. 22–27, Nov. 2022, doi: 10.1109/MCOM.001.2200012.
[29] M. Rosani, G. Cena, D. Cavalcanti, V . Frascolla, G. Marchetto, and
S. Scanzio, “A Software Platform for Testing Multi-Link Operation
in Industrial Wi-Fi Networks,” IEEE International Workshop on Fac-
tory Communication Systems - Proceedings, WFCS, Nov. 2024, doi:
10.1109/WFCS60972.2024.10540967.
[30] J. Sengendo and F. Granelli, “Building Network Digital Twins Part
I: State Synchronization,” Proceedings of the 3rd International Con-
ference on 6G Networking, 6GNet 2024, pp. 182–188, 2024, doi:
10.1109/6GNET63182.2024.10765759.
[31] K. Chang, Y . Du, M. Liu, J. Shi, Y . Zhou, and Y . Li, “OS Packet
Processing Mechanism Simulation Architecture for Enabling Digital
Twins of Networks in ns-3,” Conference Proceedings of the IEEE In-
ternational Performance, Computing, and Communications Conference,
pp. 186–193, 2023, doi: 10.1109/IPCCC59175.2023.10253819.
[32] W. S. Jung, J. Kim, and D. S. Y oo, “An FMI Compliant
Co-Simulation Approach for NS-3 Network Simulator,” Interna-
tional Conference on ICT Convergence, pp. 1954–1959, 2024, doi:
10.1109/ICTC62082.2024.10827338.
[33] E. N. Almeida et al., “Machine learning based propagation loss module
for enabling digital twins of wireless networks in ns-3,” dl.acm.orgEN
Almeida, M Rushad, SR Kota, A Nambiar, HL Harti, C Gupta,
D Waseem, G SantosProceedings of the 2022 Workshop on ns-3,
2022•dl.acm.org, pp. 17–24, Jun. 2022, doi: 10.1145/3532577.3532607.
[34] M. Ferriol-Galmés et al., “Building a Digital Twin for network opti-
mization using Graph Neural Networks,” Computer Networks, vol. 217,
p. 109329, Nov. 2022, doi: 10.1016/J.COMNET.2022.109329.
[35] Y . Shen, J. Zhang, S. H. Song, and K. B. Letaief, “Graph Neural
Networks for Wireless Communications: From Theory to Practice,”
12

--- PAGE 13 ---
IEEE Transactions on Wireless Communications, vol. 22, no. 5, pp.
3554–3569, May 2023, doi: 10.1109/TWC.2022.3219840.
[36] B. Li et al., “Learnable Digital Twin for Efﬁcient Wireless Net-
work Evaluation,” MILCOM 2023 - 2023 IEEE Military Communi-
cations Conference: Communications Supporting Military Operations
in a Contested Environment, pp. 661–666, 2023, doi: 10.1109/MIL-
COM58377.2023.10356320.
[37] E. Ak, B. Canberk, V . Sharma, O. A. Dobre, and T. Q. Duong, “What-
if Analysis Framework for Digital Twins in 6G Wireless Network
Management,” 20th International Wireless Communications and Mo-
bile Computing Conference, IWCMC 2024, pp. 232–237, 2024, doi:
10.1109/IWCMC61514.2024.10592526.
[38] L. U. Khan et al., “Digital twin of wireless systems:
Overview, taxonomy, challenges, and opportunities,” ieeex-
plore.ieee.orgLU Khan, Z Han, W Saad, E Hossain, M
Guizani, CS HongIEEE Communications Surveys & Tutorials,
2022•ieeexplore.ieee.org, Accessed: Oct. 08, 2025. [Online]. Available:
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/9854866/
[39] R. Poorzare, D. N. Kanellopoulos, V . K. Sharma, P . Dalapati, and O. P .
Waldhorst, “Network Digital Twin Toward Networking, Telecommuni-
cations, and Trafﬁc Engineering: A Survey,” IEEE Access, vol. 13, pp.
16489–16538, 2025, doi: 10.1109/ACCESS.2025.3531947.
[40] B. Huff, K. Uregdthsa, K. Muhammad, C. Searcy, and
K. M. Ammad, “Network Digital Twins: Framework,
Applications, and Challenges,” Authorea Preprints, Jul. 2024, doi:
10.36227/TECHRXIV .171995274.45268502/V1.
[41] J. Pulido, S. Fortes, and R. Barco, “Digital Twin-Based in Next-
Generation Wi-Fi Networks: Survey and Future Challenges,” IEEE Inter-
national Workshop on Factory Communication Systems - Proceedings,
WFCS, 2025, doi: 10.1109/WFCS63373.2025.11077636.
[42] H. A. Bhutta, M. T. Jahangir, and A. A. Bhutta, “Advancing Wi-Fi
Intrusion Detection Systems with Machine Learning Techniques for
Enhanced Classiﬁcation of Wireless Attacks,” pp. 1–7, Mar. 2025, doi:
10.1109/ICACS64902.2025.10937819.
[43] A. Pinto, L. C. Herrera, Y . Donoso, and J. A. Gutierrez, “Survey on
Intrusion Detection Systems Based on Machine Learning Techniques for
the Protection of Critical Infrastructure,” Sensors 2023, V ol. 23, Page
2415, vol. 23, no. 5, p. 2415, Feb. 2023, doi: 10.3390/S23052415.
[44] K. Ramezanpour, J. Jagannath, and A. Jagannath, “Security and privacy
vulnerabilities of 5G/6G and WiFi 6: Survey and research directions
from a coexistence perspective,” Computer Networks, vol. 221, p.
109515, Feb. 2023, doi: 10.1016/J.COMNET.2022.109515.
[45] M. Suárez-Román, M. Sanz-Rodrigo, A. Marín-López, and D. Arroyo,
“A Digital Twin Threat Survey,” Big Data and Cognitive Computing
2025, V ol. 9, Page 252, vol. 9, no. 10, p. 252, Oct. 2025, doi:
10.3390/BDCC9100252.
[46] S. Faye, P . Soto, G. V olpe, A. Zaki-Hindi, B. Hensel, G. Castellanos,I.
Turcanu, C. Sommer, S. M. Senouci, A. Belogaev, and M. Camelo,“A
Functional Framework for Network Digital Twins,” in Proc. IEEE
EuCNC & 6G Summit, Pozna ´n, Poland, 2025.
[47] J. Wieme, M. Baert, and J. Hoebeke, “Architectural Design for
Digital Twin Networks,” Network, vol. 5, no. 3, art. 24, 2025.
Available:https://www.mdpi.com/2673-8732/5/3/24
[48] Kellil, M., ben Hadj Said, S., Thi, M. T., Janneteau, C., & Olivereau,
A. (2024). Addressing the Scalability of Network Digital Twins: A
Network Sampling Approach. Proceedings of the 2024 20th International
Conference on Network and Service Management (CNSM 2024).
[49] D. R. Ramachandran Raj, T. A. Shaik, A. Hirwe, P . Tammana, and K.
Kataoka,“Building a Digital Twin Network of SDN Using Knowledge
Graphs,” IEEE Access, vol. 11, pp. 133789–133809, 2023. Available:
https://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2023.3288813
[50] . . , “Containerlab .” , 2024.
[51] C. Chen, Z. Jia, Z. Wang, L. Cui, and F. P . Tso, “Design and Evaluation
of an NDN-Based Network for Distributed Digital Twins,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2505.04326, 2025. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.04326
[52] L. U. Khan, Z. Han, W. Saad, E. Hossain, M. Guizani, and C. S. Hong,
“Digital Twin of Wireless Systems: Overview, Taxonomy, Challenges,
and Opportunities,” IEEE Communications Surveys & Tutorials, early
access, 2023
[53] R. V erdecchia, L. Scommegna, B. Picano, M. Becattini, and E. Vi-
cario,“Network Digital Twins: A Systematic Review,” IEEE Access, vol.
12, pp. 145400–145416, 2024.
13